---
layout: digest
title: RFC4270 - Attacks on Cryptographic Hashes in Internet Protocols
date: 2016-3-3
categories: digest
---

## Context

Internet protocols use cryptographic hash functions for a variety of purposes. Following the break of MD5 and proposed weakness of SHA-1,
they fell under scrutiny by the community at large.

## Purpose

The goal is to enlighten readers about the problems
associated with hash functions given the complete breakage of MD5 and proposed
attack on SHA-1. Finding collisions in MD5 is now trivial.

## Main Points

### Hash function security

There are three levels of security for hash functions. Ordered by increasing
strength, they are as follows:

1. Collision resistance:

Find two values x and y such that x \not= y but H(x) = H(y). This is upper bounded
by half of the bit length of the digest due to the birthday paradox.

2. First pre-image resistance:

Given a hash digest d, find a value x such that H(x) = d. This is upperbounded
by the bit length of d.

3. Second pre-image resistance:

Given a message x, find a value y such that x \not= y but H(x) = H(y). This is
upperbounded by the bit length of the digest.

### Hash function uses

1. Non-repudiatable digital signatures on messages.
2. Digital signatures in certificates from CAs.
3. Challenge-response protocols.
4. MACs with shared secrets.
5. Key derivation functions (KDFs).
6. Mixing funcitons.
7. Message integrity checks (MICs).

Collision attacks only affect the first two properties. Others are generally
unsusceptible to collision attacks because they involve some form of random
or unstructured input. Collision attacks in this sense rely on the attacker
already having the colliding messages and then using one to be signed and
distributing the other maliciously.

~~~
Adv generates colliding messages:
    M1 = "I will pay Joe $10."
    M2 = "I will pay Joe $100000000000."

Adv asks for one to be signed:
    M1 is signed by a TTP

Adv uses the other maliciously:
    M2 is used to prove that Joe must pay much more than $10
~~~

This attack only works if the victim doesn't store the original message to
prove that a forgery (by collision) was made.

~~~
*LESSON*: to thwart these attacks, victims must keep all copies of signed messages for repudiation purposes.
~~~

~~~
*LESSON*: random input will thwart hash collision attacks by transforming
them into pre-image attacks, which are significantly harder.
~~~

### Algorithm migration

Algorithm migration must take interoperability problems into account. They must
also involve only vetted algorithms for the transition. That is, they shouldn't
migrate to something less secure.

## Takeaways

1. Protocols that use hash functions should include some randomness or unpredictable
structure input to prevent collision attacks.
2. Protocol designers should steer clear of MD5 and SHA-1 and seek alternative hash
functions that do not have similar designs.
3. Algorithm migration must minimize interoperability breaks.
