---
layout: digest
title: RFC7457 - Summarizing Known Attacks on Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram TLS (DTLS)
date: 2016-3-7
categories: digest
---

## Context

TLS is the de facto protocol for secure communication in the Web. Consequently, protocol,
usage, and implementation vulnerabilities can render a significant number
of users subject to various attacks.

## Purpose

TLS took a beating by a variety of attacks in recent years. This draft outlines
common themes and highlights some of the major attacks that are worth noting. The
attacks are loosely categorized based on their impact, goals, and exploit vector
or vulnerability.

## Main Points

There is no shortage of attacks on TLS and related protocols. The following list
summarizes some of the main ones.

- Downgrade attacks: Downgrade attacks are those which force a client or server to
use a weakened or inferior form of protection (e.g., using weak DH primes in SSL [2])
that can be broken or offer no protection at all. The example in this document is
SSLStripping, which is an attack where an attacker forces a client to use HTTP
instead of HTTPS to communicate with a server. HSTS (HTTP Strict Transport Security)
[1] typically combats this problem. Another type of downgrade attack is Logjam [2].
In Logjam, weak Diffie Hellman (DH) primes are used in the export-grade version of SSL.
This, in conjunction with the server not securing signaling that it chose such parameters,
leads to a MitM attack on the protocol. See [3] for more details. Another related
problem stems from using non-standard DH groups. Never invent or use your own crypto; use
vetted standards.

- Weak encryption algorithms: Both AES-CBC (a block cipher) and RC4 (a stream cipher)
have been shown to be subject to attacks in select scenarios. CBC with a predictable
IV leads to a form of chosen plaintext attack. This is the basis for BEAST [4]. RC4
is generally a weak cipher. For example, biases in the keystream can be used to
recover large parts of the plaintext. Such attacks require 2^26 sessions or 13x2^30
encryptions, which is not far from realistic today.

- Padding oracle attacks: This attack relies on the existence of some way to determine
whether certain messages are padded correctly or not. Attackers can use this information
to decrypt parts of a packet. The MAC-then-encrypt paradigm  (which should not be used)
allowed this type of attack through a timing side channel [5]. The POODLE timing-based
attack is also a form of padding oracle attack but it has no readily available remedy
beyond disabling SSL 3.0.

- Compression attacks: These attacks generally use a form of chosen plaintext attack
and ciphertext size leakage to hone in on secret information that's encrypted in
packets. Specifically, by controlling information sent (and encrypted)
by a browser and observing the corresponding sizes of the packets, one can learn
about the secret information contained in each packet. If a change
the controlled input changes and the amount of compression reduces, then it must be true
that the input is similar to the secret information. This is the basic idea behind the CRIME attack which extracted secret cookies to hijack sessions [6]. TIME and BREACH [7] are other examples of compression attacks.

- Non-forward secure keys: Without forward secrecy, session keys and the traffic
they protect are compromised when private keys are compromised. Modern DH-based
key exchange methods must be used to establish forward-secure keys to minimize
the damage caused by stolen or exposed private keys. TLS 1.3 ensures that
all communication uses forward-secure session keys [8].

- Computational DoS: TLS 1.2 permitted an asymmetric workload between clients
and servers. In particular, clients could cause servers to do non-trivial computations
with little effort. This paves the way for a DoS attack. DTLS [9] and QUIC [10] have similar problems
since UDP is a connectionless protocol. In that context, the problem is partly
mitigated by using secure IP-bound cookies.

- Implementation problems: Protocols crumble when poorly implemented. Select
implementation problems include failure to verify certificates and server
identities as well as seemingly trivial attacks based on buffer overflows. The
Heartbleed attack is a well-known example of how bounds checks can be exploited
for malicious purposes [11].

## Takeaways

- Don't use RC4 or AES-CBC.
- Don't use weak or export cryptography subject to attack.
- Don't use malleable compression.
- Use protocols that enable forward secrecy.
- Thoroghly test your code.

# References

- [1] Marlinspike, M., "sslstrip", February 2009, [http://www.thoughtcrime.org/software/sslstrip/](http://www.thoughtcrime.org/software/sslstrip/).
- [2] "Weak Diffie-Hellman and the Logjam Attack," [https://weakdh.org/](https://weakdh.org/).
- [3] Valsorda, F., "Logjam: the latest TLS vulnerability explained," [https://blog.cloudflare.com/logjam-the-latest-tls-vulnerability-explained/](https://blog.cloudflare.com/logjam-the-latest-tls-vulnerability-explained/)
- [4] Rizzo, J. and T. Duong, "Browser Exploit Against SSL/TLS", 2011, [http://packetstormsecurity.com/files/105499/Browser-Exploit-Against-SSL-TLS.html](http://packetstormsecurity.com/files/105499/Browser-Exploit-Against-SSL-TLS.html)
- [5] Al Fardan, Nadhem J., and Kenneth G. Paterson. "Lucky thirteen: Breaking the TLS and DTLS record protocols." Security and Privacy (SP), 2013 IEEE Symposium on. IEEE, 2013.
- [6] Rizzo, Juliano, and Thai Duong. "The CRIME attack." EKOparty Security Conference. Vol. 2012.
- [7] Gluck, Yoel, Neal Harris, and Angelo Prado. "BREACH: reviving the cRIME attack." Unpublished manuscript (2013).
- [8] Rescorla, E., "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3," [https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-tls-tls13/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-tls-tls13/).
- [9] Rescorla, Eric, and Nagendra Modadugu. "Datagram transport layer security version 1.2," 2012, [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6347.txt](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6347.txt).
- [10] Langley, A., and W. T. Chang. "QUIC crypto," 2014.
- [11] Durumeric, Zakir, et al. "The matter of heartbleed." Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Internet Measurement Conference. ACM, 2014, [http://autoblog.leslibres.org/autoblogs/krebsonsecuritycom_4eab703a256df265f3abda6134d777218e00ffe9/media/e3fa9c69.heartbleed-imc14.pdf](http://autoblog.leslibres.org/autoblogs/krebsonsecuritycom_4eab703a256df265f3abda6134d777218e00ffe9/media/e3fa9c69.heartbleed-imc14.pdf).
